lahar.. .what is a lahar ...
if ash is still hot these can be hot as well
very dangerous

what is the most common volitaile in 

1)water,
2)sulfur dioxide,
3)sulfur?

Viscoicty of a melftgoes with a melt flow?

General flow charasterstics in the group of lavas talked about
Lavas made up of basalt, flow easily
lava made of rolaite rarely flows pretty unomcoommon for it to flow

calbera what is? 
calbera big violent eruptions .....

Mantle plumes.... what are they .... 
there is a alternative models for the mantle plumes

volancism explained at plate boundaries
volcanism hard to explain mantle plumes
they are not widely universaly ecepted

volanic activity without a plate boundary

Rift- goes back to plate techtonics

associated with continental rifts.
Really strange compositions initially ....a new rift? dafuq?
ICeland what makes it unique sits on mid atlantic ridge ppeople belive a volacnic plu sits underneath it

3 types of faukts..
Same as the movements of the other sections
normal faults
revers fauls

Beable to draw crosection sketch of each fault type/relative each motion

You can have convergence without subductions contitnets crashing into eachother..

Divergene margins reverse faulting at 
    know the 3 stresses.... on faults... 

Short term baises?

Sesmic erupitons
animal precursors
Tsunamis 

Chapters
5 6 7 8

metamorphic
volcanicrocks
volcanoes 

remind about bonuses 
one of the stresss going 
Faulting and jointing have motion 

What are the 4 classes of sedimentary rock 
permenates biogenic chemical sedmient plastic carbonate.....

coal.....organic...?
Chemical sediments...

Metamorphism -> subject sediments to certain conditions and you will get certain types of rocks....





transform fauls


pohoho for flow with warm passes into wrinkles glassy 
volcan->greek 
Pompei covered in ash and sut and lava...... complete record of daily life 

Crystal content, chemical compositon, gas content, temperature <--viscocity is controled by these factors

silica content controls vescoity  pool lave flows further compared to silica rich 
The more silica the more visocious. 

Basaltic ->poor silica aka the flow goes a longway very water...

Silic lava 

mafic very low vescocity very hot 

The more dense the more heat it takes for the lava to flow due to compisition benchode...
Lava tube - an insulated tunnle conduit where lava moves is a called a lava tube.
lava tubs darin and become empty table and the lava from the tube cool/freezes and becomes a blanket. 

PAHOEHOE --> surface layer of lava freezes then

Papeli -> consists of marble sized pubisce fragments
pyroclastic flow -> deadly cloud its like a glow  deadly glow 
may also rise and be carried away by the wind to fall like snow. 

MT pelee spewed out --> 

450 degree celsius -> flankand reach peed of 350k per hour.... 
pyroclastic deposits -> teffra 

teph·ra
/ˈtefrə/
Learn to pronounce
nounGeology
noun: tephra; plural noun: tephras

    rock fragments and particles ejected by a volcanic eruption.

Tuff-> air for tuff ignibrite 
Ash and incibirte weld together to form a hard mass

/ˈlähär/
Learn to pronounce
nounGeology
noun: lahar; plural noun: lahars

    a destructive mudflow on the slopes of a volcano.

3 types of gases 
water
carbon dyioxide 
sulfre dioxide
hydrogen sulfide

the more silica the more dense the more gas.

The last bubles freeze into the lava creating holes that are called vesicles. 


High vescotiy magam gas has trouble of escaping

magma chamber highly fracture of rock that contains magma 
The magma transforms into the intrusive igneous rock 

vertical crack called a fissure

pyroplastc

crater->mound aka a hole in the ground 
shaped like a bowl 
During eruption material gathers and then the crater

eruptions in the summite are called summit eruptions

Shield Volcanoe
Cinder cones
strater volcanoes 

Efllusive eruptions
Explosions eruptions 
 
 Lava splatter-> Blobs freeze in air teffer or cynders
 BOMBS --> Larger blobs ejectect from volcano become bombs
 
 Erupritions create globs that tunr into glass and pile up... cylinders?
 
Overlying volcano 

Intrusion 

Plutons-->

Tabular intrusion --> cuts acrooss prexesting layer of dikes.
Silers-> 
Some times lava pools called ? Pushedu p layer lip.

 
 Products of midocean ridge covers 70percent of earths surface..... hides below blanket of water
 
 mid ocean ridge volcanonic devlop along fisures parrel to the ridge axis.
 They erupt basalt which cools so quick creates mounds
 Thermo hot water vents -> known as black smokers...
 
 Mlst lay on subduction boundaries
 
 Water and carbondioxide are relaesed from subducting plat when volcanoes appear.
 Causes melting and casuses magma
 
 Some of these volcanoes grow and become islands 
 Continentail volcanic arcs-> EXAMPLE:and some grow in contenental crust such as coscade volcaninc in washington.
 cascade vulcanic chain of washington. 
 
 Subduction zones border over 60% of the ocean.
 
 Volcanic island arcs that grow in ocean EXAMPLE : in the Western pacifc lays the marian islands.
 
Ring of fire. 

sometimes pyroplastic eruptions occurs. Example mount fuji.

blasted apart hulk mt saint helens. 

Continental rifts yearns a wide array
Rifts salted fissure oftens linear change cyndrical chamber oclumns...
RIFTS BASALTED FIRRUSRE ERUPTIONS AND FOUNTAIN UP AND CREATE CYLINDER COLUMNS FROM IT. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
